# Indexing & resampling time series

## Time series transformation
- Parsing string dates and convert to `datetime64`.
- Selecting and slicing specific subperiods.
- Setting and changing `DatimeTimeIndex` frequency.
  - Upsampling (to a higher frequency) by generating new data.
  - Downsampling (to a lower frequency) by aggregating data.

## Convert string dates to `datetime64`
`pd.to_datetime()`:
- Parse date string.
- Convert to `datetime64`.

```py
pd.to_datetime(df.datecolumn)
```

## Setting the date as index
`.set_index()`:
- Set date to index.

```py
df.set_index('datecolumn`, inplace=True)
df.info()

>> Output:
<class 'pandas.core.frame.DataFrame`>
DatetimeIndex: 500 entries, 2015-01-02 to 2016-12-30
 . . . <rest of df info>
```
> The resulting DateTimeIndex lets you treat the entire DataFrame as time series data.


## Partial string indexing
To select subsets of the time series.

- Selecting/indexing using strings that parse to dates:
```py
df['2015'] # Pass string for part of date
```
> Pandas will return all dates within this year, since we passed a string representing a year.

```py
df['2015-3':'2016-2'] # Slice INCLUDES last month
```
> If you pass a slice that starts with one month and ends at another, Pandas will return all the dates within that range.
>
> Both the start date and the end dates are included.

```py
df.loc['2016-6-1', 'price'] # Use FULL DATE with .loc[]
```
> Pass in complete date and column label to select a specific price at that time.

## Setting the frequency

### Set frequency
`.asfreq('D')`:
- Set frequency information
- Convert `DateTimeIndex` to calendar day frequency.

```py
df.asfreq('D') # Set calendar day frequency to DAY
```
#### Upsampling
The new DataFrame will have higher frequency than the original version, which means we will have new dates. New dates will lead to missing data.

### Reset frequency
`.asfreq('B')`:
- Set frequency information
- Convert `DateTimeIndex` from calendar day to business day frequency.

```py
df.asfreq('B') # Change to business day frequency
```
#### Downsampling
The new DataFrame will have lower frequency than the original version.
